Marketing Launch Plan: Web analytics (#179)
PostHog/meta: requests-for-comments/2024-02-13-web-analytics-launch.md

- [ ] Add PostHog to any relevant new G2 categories

## Default launch activities

Basic things we always do. 

- [ ] Run a relevant Product for Engineers newsletter: `How we built Web Analytics` / `Learning from the mistakes of GA4` maybe?
- [ ] In-app announcement using surveys/notifications for all users - @joethreepwood
- [ ] Email announcement to beta users _ahead of launch_ - @joethreepwood (preferential pricing?)
- [ ] Email announcement to all remaining users _at launch_ - @joethreepwood
- [ ] Blog + Changelog announcement at launch - @joethreepwood
- [ ] Social announcements on Twitter + LinkedIn - @joethreepwood
- [ ] Pylon announcement to all current paying users - @joethreepwood
- [x] New key art for use in blogs, emails, etc - @lottiecoxon
- [ ] New web analytics ads run by Hey Digital - @andyvan-ph 
- [ ] Invite YC teams who don't use us on our marketing site to try us out

## Bigger ideas

Ideas for other, weirder things go here. 

- [ ] Article comparing performance impact of PostHog vs other web analytics tools
- [ ] Web analytics comparison content for: Plausible, Fathom
- [ ] Announce via newsletter sponsorships 

> - [ ] Approach Jason Packer about contributing to the newsletter/blog

Author: ```suggestion
- [ ] Approach Jason Packer about contributing to the newsletter/blog
- [ ] Unique hedgehog mode skin design and implementation - @lottiecoxon & @robbie-c 
```

We have some [new best practices for product launches around templates](https://posthog.com/handbook/engineering/development-process#best-practices-for-full-releases), but these mostly do not apply to web analytics due to its scope. 

## Pricing?

Pricing is TBC, but web analytics will have usage-based pricing. 

## Site updates

Basic stuff across the site that'll need to be done. 

- [x] Update documentation - @andyvan https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/issues/7736
- [x] Create a product page - @corywaitlo https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/pull/8001
- [x] Web analytics case study - @joethreepwood
- [x] Remove beta tags from homepage slider, docs, etc - @joethreepwood
- [x] Add Web analytics links to footer - @joethreepwood
- [ ] Update `/blog/ga4-alternatives` with a CTA
- [ ] Update `/blog/track-your-website-with-posthog` with a CTA
- [ ] Update `/blog/google-analytics-to-posthog` with a CTA
- [ ] Update `https://posthog.com/blog/posthog-vs-ga4` with a CTA
- [x] Create a Web Analytics section for `/questions`

> - [ ] Add a Frequently Asked Questions post to community - @joethreepwood

Author: ```suggestion
- [ ] Add a Frequently Asked Questions post to community - @joethreepwood
- [x] Migration guide: GA > PostHog - Ian
```

- [ ] Add Web Analytics path as an email onboarding option - @joethreepwood
- [ ] Add Web Analytics to G2, Bookface, etc - @joethreepwood
- [ ] Update PostHog README.md with information - @joethreepwood
- [ ] Add PostHog to any relevant new G2 categories

## Default launch activities

Basic things we always do. 

- [ ] Run a relevant Product for Engineers newsletter: `How we built Web Analytics` / `Learning from the mistakes of GA4` maybe?
- [ ] In-app announcement using surveys/notifications for all users - @joethreepwood
- [ ] Email announcement to beta users _ahead of launch_ - @joethreepwood (preferential pricing?)
- [ ] Email announcement to all remaining users _at launch_ - @joethreepwood
- [ ] Blog + Changelog announcement at launch - @joethreepwood
- [ ] Social announcements on Twitter + LinkedIn - @joethreepwood
- [ ] Pylon announcement to all current paying users - @joethreepwood
- [x] New key art for use in blogs, emails, etc - @lottiecoxon
- [ ] New web analytics ads run by Hey Digital - @andyvan-ph 
- [ ] Invite YC teams who don't use us on our marketing site to try us out

## Bigger ideas

Ideas for other, weirder things go here. 

> - [ ] Web Analytics launch on Product Hunt

Author: ```suggestion
```

## Web analytics marketing launch plan

The launch date for web analytics isn't nailed down yet, but it's _seeming_ like it'll be in March. Either way, it's never too early to plan for how we'll market the heck out it. 

It's worth noting that Web Analytics has been in opt-in beta for some time too, so we can rely on this group of beta-testing customers as an additional launch asset!

We have some [new best practices for product launches around templates](https://posthog.com/handbook/engineering/development-process#best-practices-for-full-releases), but these mostly do not apply to web analytics due to its scope. 

## Pricing?

Pricing is TBC, but web analytics will have usage-based pricing. 

## Site updates

Basic stuff across the site that'll need to be done. 

- [x] Update documentation - @andyvan https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/issues/7736
- [x] Create a product page - @corywaitlo https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/pull/8001
- [x] Web analytics case study - @joethreepwood
- [x] Remove beta tags from homepage slider, docs, etc - @joethreepwood
- [x] Add Web analytics links to footer - @joethreepwood

> - [ ] Update `/blog/ga4-alternatives` with a CTA
> - [ ] Update `/blog/track-your-website-with-posthog` with a CTA
> - [ ] Update `/blog/google-analytics-to-posthog` with a CTA
> - [ ] Update `https://posthog.com/blog/posthog-vs-ga4` with a CTA

Author: ```suggestion
- [x] Update `/blog/ga4-alternatives` with a CTA - @joethreepwood
- [x] Update `/blog/track-your-website-with-posthog` with a CTA - @joethreepwood
- [x] Update `/blog/google-analytics-to-posthog` with a CTA - @joethreepwood
- [x] Update `https://posthog.com/blog/posthog-vs-ga4` with a CTA - @joethreepwood
```

- [x] Create a Web Analytics section for `/questions`
- [ ] Add a Frequently Asked Questions post to community - @joethreepwood
- [x] Migration guide: GA > PostHog - Ian

## Other updates

Basic stuff outside the website that we'll need to update. 

- [ ] Add Web Analytics as an option in in-app onboarding - GROWTH

> - [ ] Add Web Analytics path as an email onboarding option - @joethreepwood

Author: ```suggestion
- [x] Add Web Analytics path as an email onboarding option - @joethreepwood
```

> - [ ] Add Web Analytics to G2, Bookface, etc - @joethreepwood

Author: ```suggestion
- [x] Add Web Analytics to G2 - @joethreepwood
- [x] Add Web Analytics to Bookface - @joethreepwood
- [x] Add Web Analytics to LinkedIn profile - @joethreepwood
```

- [ ] Add PostHog to any relevant new G2 categories

## Default launch activities

Basic things we always do. 

- [ ] Run a relevant Product for Engineers newsletter: `How we built Web Analytics` / `Learning from the mistakes of GA4` maybe?
- [ ] In-app announcement using surveys/notifications for all users - @joethreepwood
- [ ] Email announcement to beta users _ahead of launch_ - @joethreepwood (preferential pricing?)
- [ ] Email announcement to all remaining users _at launch_ - @joethreepwood
- [ ] Blog + Changelog announcement at launch - @joethreepwood
- [ ] Social announcements on Twitter + LinkedIn - @joethreepwood
- [ ] Pylon announcement to all current paying users - @joethreepwood
- [ ] New key art for use in blogs, emails, etc - @lottiecoxon
- [ ] New web analytics ads run by Hey Digital 

## Bigger ideas

> Ideas for other, weirder things go here. 

Reviewer: Chatted with @ivanagas about potentially live-coding some Web Analytics features and putting an edited video on youtube.

We have some [new best practices for product launches around templates](https://posthog.com/handbook/engineering/development-process#best-practices-for-full-releases), but these mostly do not apply to web analytics due to its scope. 

## Pricing?

Pricing is TBC, but web analytics will have usage-based pricing. 

## Site updates

Basic stuff across the site that'll need to be done. 

- [ ] Update documentation - @andyvan https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/issues/7736
- [ ] Create a product page 
- [ ] Web analytics case study - @joethreepwood
- [ ] Remove beta tags from homepage slider, docs, etc - @joethreepwood
- [ ] Add Web analytics links to footer - @joethreepwood
- [ ] Update `/blog/ga4-alternatives` with a CTA
- [ ] Update `/blog/track-your-website-with-posthog` with a CTA
- [ ] Update `/blog/google-analytics-to-posthog` with a CTA
- [ ] Update `https://posthog.com/blog/posthog-vs-ga4` with a CTA
- [ ] Create a Web Analytics section for `/questions`
- [ ] Add a Frequently Asked Questions post to community - @joethreepwood

## Other updates

Basic stuff outside the website that we'll need to update. 

> - [ ] Add Web Analytics as an option in in-app onboarding - GROWTH

Reviewer 2: I think it'll be part of product analytics, see https://github.com/PostHog/product-internal/pull/566

Author: As in it'll be included with product analytics, or some sort of sub-choice from there? 

I'd like to have a web analytics path in the onboarding emails, but in order to do that I'd ideally need users to make an explicit choice to focus on it.

Reviewer 2: tbd, will update

- [ ] Add Web Analytics path as an email onboarding option - @joethreepwood
- [ ] Add Web Analytics to G2, Bookface, etc - @joethreepwood
- [ ] Update PostHog README.md with information - @joethreepwood
- [ ] Add PostHog to any relevant new G2 categories

## Default launch activities

Basic things we always do. 

- [ ] Run a relevant Product for Engineers newsletter: `How we built Web Analytics` / `Learning from the mistakes of GA4` maybe?
- [ ] In-app announcement using surveys/notifications for all users - @joethreepwood
- [ ] Email announcement to beta users _ahead of launch_ - @joethreepwood (preferential pricing?)
- [ ] Email announcement to all remaining users _at launch_ - @joethreepwood
- [ ] Blog + Changelog announcement at launch - @joethreepwood
- [ ] Social announcements on Twitter + LinkedIn - @joethreepwood
- [ ] Pylon announcement to all current paying users - @joethreepwood
- [ ] New key art for use in blogs, emails, etc - @lottiecoxon
- [ ] New web analytics ads run by Hey Digital 

## Bigger ideas

Ideas for other, weirder things go here. 

> 

Author: @robbie-c @ivanagas What would you think about adding a tool/doc about how to migrate from GA4 to PostHog? 

I'm unclear on the process here, but I imagine anything we do to support migration of data is going to help encourage adoption.

Author: Amplitude and Mixpanel have this in their docs
https://www.docs.developers.amplitude.com/data/tutorials/migrating-from-google-analytics/
https://docs.mixpanel.com/docs/migration/google-analytics

Reviewer: Doc yes, tool maybe. Internal thread on GA4 import https://posthog.slack.com/archives/C05LJK1N3CP/p1707910732916289

- [ ] Limited edition merch drop for users in the beta: "I was in PostHog's beta and all I got was this awesome t-shirt!"

> - [ ] Web Analytics launch on Product Hunt

Author: LETS DO IT

> - [ ] Web Analytics launch on Product Hunt

Reviewer 3: The quality of audience is so bad on PH I'd love to not spend time here tbh. Even though I think we could do really well, I think we would just generate a ton of WoM with people who don't want to spend money but have lots of support questions.

> - [ ] Web Analytics launch on Product Hunt

Author: I don't feel we've fully proven this tbh, and I'd love to give it another try. I feel like we missed a trick with this on surveys for the same reason. 

Maybe we compromise and look out to some new, untested communities -- Indiehackers or Betalist?

> - [ ] Web Analytics launch on Product Hunt

Reviewer 3: I'm happy to try Product Hunt again and be proven wrong here. So long as we're looking further down the funnel at ICPs/billing subscribed, and not just the vanity stuff. Maybe we give it a proper go and then either decide it was a success to repeat, or not to try it again?

It looks like if you hit top 3, [you should expect 2-3k views and 50-100 signups](https://dev-mkt.slack.com/archives/C057KGB5UBZ/p1700832241814809?thread_ts=1700828246.089149&cid=C057KGB5UBZ) - which is far lower than front page of Hacker News territory. 

Also worth bearing in mind PH has changed quite a lot and [has become more pay-to-win](https://dev.to/wasp/product-hunt-has-become-pay-to-win-but-you-should-still-use-it-to-launch-your-product-508d), so we should factor that into the plan.

(I think it's pretty clear I'm down on PH, but will disagree and commit here - would rather do that than try a much smaller community.)

> - [ ] Web Analytics launch on Product Hunt

Author: On reflection, I'm starting to lean no on this -- I'll park it for now, just as I've come to agree with Charles that the effort for PH would be pretty high compared to the win.

- [ ] Article comparing performance impact of PostHog vs other web analytics tools
- [ ] Web analytics comparison content for: Plausible, Fathom
- [ ] Video tutorial about how to use web analytics

> - [ ] Give Theo information as to how we built Web Analytics for a video 

Reviewer 4: Related idea, we do something with [Morning Makers](https://morningmakershow.com/) on Twitter. Guide to web analytics for indie hackers?

## Web analytics marketing launch plan

The launch date for web analytics isn't nailed down yet, but it's _seeming_ like it'll be in March. Either way, it's never too early to plan for how we'll market the heck out it. 

It's worth noting that Web Analytics has been in opt-in beta for some time too, so we can rely on this group of beta-testing customers as an additional launch asset!

We have some [new best practices for product launches around templates](https://posthog.com/handbook/engineering/development-process#best-practices-for-full-releases), but these mostly do not apply to web analytics due to its scope. 

## Pricing?

Pricing is TBC, but web analytics will have usage-based pricing. 

## Site updates

Basic stuff across the site that'll need to be done. 

- [ ] Update documentation - @andyvan https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/issues/7736
- [ ] Create a product page - @corywaitlo https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/pull/8001

> - [ ] Web analytics case study - @joethreepwood

Author: ```suggestion
- [x] Web analytics case study - @joethreepwood
```

> - [ ] Update documentation - @andyvan https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/issues/7736
> - [ ] Create a product page - @corywaitlo https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/pull/8001
> - [x] Web analytics case study - @joethreepwood
> - [ ] Remove beta tags from homepage slider, docs, etc - @joethreepwood
> - [ ] Add Web analytics links to footer - @joethreepwood
> - [ ] Update `/blog/ga4-alternatives` with a CTA
> - [ ] Update `/blog/track-your-website-with-posthog` with a CTA
> - [ ] Update `/blog/google-analytics-to-posthog` with a CTA
> - [ ] Update `https://posthog.com/blog/posthog-vs-ga4` with a CTA
> - [ ] Create a Web Analytics section for `/questions`
> - [ ] Add a Frequently Asked Questions post to community - @joethreepwood

Author: ```suggestion
- [x] Update documentation - @andyvan https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/issues/7736
- [x] Create a product page - @corywaitlo https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/pull/8001
- [x] Web analytics case study - @joethreepwood
- [x] Remove beta tags from homepage slider, docs, etc - @joethreepwood
- [x] Add Web analytics links to footer - @joethreepwood
- [ ] Update `/blog/ga4-alternatives` with a CTA
- [ ] Update `/blog/track-your-website-with-posthog` with a CTA
- [ ] Update `/blog/google-analytics-to-posthog` with a CTA
- [ ] Update `https://posthog.com/blog/posthog-vs-ga4` with a CTA
- [x] Create a Web Analytics section for `/questions`
- [ ] Add a Frequently Asked Questions post to community - @joethreepwood
```

- [x] Migration guide: GA > PostHog - Ian

## Other updates

Basic stuff outside the website that we'll need to update. 

- [ ] Add Web Analytics as an option in in-app onboarding - GROWTH
- [x] Add Web Analytics path as an email onboarding option - @joethreepwood
- [x] Add Web Analytics to G2 - @joethreepwood
- [x] Add Web Analytics to Bookface - @joethreepwood
- [x] Add Web Analytics to LinkedIn profile - @joethreepwood

> - [ ] Update PostHog README.md with information - @joethreepwood

Author: ```suggestion
- [x] Update PostHog README.md with information - @joethreepwood
```

> - [ ] Add PostHog to any relevant new G2 categories

Author: ```suggestion
- [x] Add PostHog to any relevant new G2 categories
```

## Default launch activities

Basic things we always do. 

- [ ] Run a relevant Product for Engineers newsletter: `How we built Web Analytics` / `Learning from the mistakes of GA4` maybe?
- [ ] In-app announcement using surveys/notifications for all users - @joethreepwood

> - [ ] Email announcement to beta users _ahead of launch_ - @joethreepwood (preferential pricing?)

Author: ```suggestion
- [ ] Email announcement to beta users at launch with special reward - @joethreepwood 
```

- [ ] Email announcement to all remaining users _at launch_ - @joethreepwood

> - [ ] Blog + Changelog announcement at launch - @joethreepwood

Author: ```suggestion
- [ ] Blog / Changelog announcement at launch - @joethreepwood
```

> - [ ] Run a relevant Product for Engineers newsletter: `How we built Web Analytics` / `Learning from the mistakes of GA4` maybe?
> - [ ] In-app announcement using surveys/notifications for all users - @joethreepwood
> - [ ] Email announcement to beta users _ahead of launch_ - @joethreepwood (preferential pricing?)
> - [ ] Email announcement to all remaining users _at launch_ - @joethreepwood
> - [ ] Blog + Changelog announcement at launch - @joethreepwood
> - [ ] Social announcements on Twitter + LinkedIn - @joethreepwood
> - [ ] Pylon announcement to all current paying users - @joethreepwood
> - [ ] New key art for use in blogs, emails, etc - @lottiecoxon
> - [ ] New web analytics ads run by Hey Digital 

Author: ```suggestion
- [ ] Run a relevant Product for Engineers newsletter: `How we built Web Analytics` / `Learning from the mistakes of GA4` maybe?
- [ ] In-app announcement using surveys/notifications for all users - @joethreepwood
- [ ] Email announcement to beta users _ahead of launch_ - @joethreepwood (preferential pricing?)
- [ ] Email announcement to all remaining users _at launch_ - @joethreepwood
- [ ] Blog + Changelog announcement at launch - @joethreepwood
- [ ] Social announcements on Twitter + LinkedIn - @joethreepwood
- [ ] Pylon announcement to all current paying users - @joethreepwood
- [x] New key art for use in blogs, emails, etc - @lottiecoxon
- [ ] New web analytics ads run by Hey Digital - @andyvan-ph 
```

- [ ] Invite YC teams who don't use us on our marketing site to try us out

## Bigger ideas

Ideas for other, weirder things go here. 

> - [ ] Limited edition merch drop for users in the beta: "I was in PostHog's beta and all I got was this awesome t-shirt!"

Author: ```suggestion
```

> - [ ] Run a relevant Product for Engineers newsletter: `How we built Web Analytics` / `Learning from the mistakes of GA4` maybe?
> - [ ] In-app announcement using surveys/notifications for all users - @joethreepwood
> - [ ] Email announcement to beta users at launch with special reward - @joethreepwood 
> - [ ] Email announcement to all remaining users _at launch_ - @joethreepwood
> - [ ] Blog / Changelog announcement at launch - @joethreepwood
> - [ ] Social announcements on Twitter + LinkedIn - @joethreepwood
> - [ ] Pylon announcement to all current paying users - @joethreepwood
> - [x] New key art for use in blogs, emails, etc - @lottiecoxon
> - [ ] New web analytics ads run by Hey Digital - @andyvan-ph 
> - [ ] Invite YC teams who don't use us on our marketing site to try us out

Author: ```suggestion
- [x] In-app announcement using surveys/notifications for all users - @joethreepwood
- [x] Email announcement to beta users at launch with special reward - @joethreepwood 
- [x] Email announcement to all remaining users _at launch_ - @joethreepwood
- [x] Blog / Changelog announcement at launch - @joethreepwood
- [x] Social announcements on Twitter + LinkedIn - @joethreepwood
- [x] Pylon announcement to all current paying users - @joethreepwood
- [x] New key art for use in blogs, emails, etc - @lottiecoxon
- [ ] New web analytics ads run by Hey Digital - @andyvan-ph 
- [x] Invite YC teams who don't use us on our marketing site to try us out
```

- [ ] Web Analytics launch on Product Hunt

> - [ ] Article comparing performance impact of PostHog vs other web analytics tools
> - [ ] Web analytics comparison content for: Plausible, Fathom
> - [ ] Video tutorial about how to use web analytics
> - [ ] Give Theo information as to how we built Web Analytics for a video 

Author: ```suggestion
- [ ] Article comparing performance impact of PostHog vs other web analytics tools
- [ ] Web analytics comparison content for: Plausible, Fathom
```
